Module 2: Deployment
---
**This lab is expected to last a maximum of 25 minutes including lab launch.**

# Lab 2.1. Adding Veeam Backup & Replication to Veeam Backup Enterprise Manager

1. [] Launch the **Veeam Backup Enterprise Manager** from the desktop.
> Note: Because the URL for Veeam Backup Enterprise Manager was added to Internet Explorer's local intranet zone, single sign-on is allowed, and you will not be prompted for any username or password.

2. [] Click the **Configuration** button in the top right corner.
3. [] Click the **Add...** button.
4. [] Click the **Yes** button to accept pushing licenses from the Enterprise Manager server to all connected backup servers.
5. [] Enter:
 1. DNS name: +++veeam-vbr.veeaminfra.local+++
 2. User name: +++VEEAMINFRA\Administrator+++
 3. Password: +++Pa$$w0rd+++
6. [] Click the **OK** button to add the server.
7. [] Select the **veeam-vbr.veeaminfra.local** backup server.
8. [] Click the **Schedule...** button.
9. [] Reduce the collection interval to +++2+++ (two) minutes to fit our lab needs.
10. [] Click the **OK** button.
11. [] Navigate to the **Sessions** view.
12. [] Check if any errors of automatically started collection processes occur, then close the **Veeam Backup Enterprise Manager** window.
> Note: The initial configuration of Veeam Backup Enterprise Manager is completed. We will use it in a later
lab

===

# Lab 2.2. Setting up Veeam ONE (part one)

Add VMware vSphere, and Microsoft Hyper-V hosts to the Veeam ONE interface and schedule data
collection.

## Step 1: Add an ESXi host

1. [] Launch **Veeam ONE Monitor** from the desktop.
2. [] Click the **Connect** button to confirm your login credentials.
3. [] Veeam ONE uses the configuration settings for sending email notifications and SNMP traps generated by Veeam ONE Monitor and Veeam ONE Reporter. Click the **Cancel** button as we will perform this configuration later in the course.
4. [] Click the **Add Server** button on the toolbar.
5. [] Select **VMware Server**.
6. [] Enter DNS name: +++VEEAM-ESX+++
7. [] Select the **ESX(i) host** radio button.
8. [] Click the **Next** button on the **Name** step.
9. [] Enter:
 1. Username: +++root+++
 2. Password: +++Pa$$w0rd+++.

10. [] Click the **Next** button on the **Credentials** step.

10. [] Click the **Finish** button on the **Summary** step.
11. [] It will take some time for the infrastructure to be analyzed. Expand the newly added **VEEAM-ESX** host.
> Note: It may take one to two minutes before it is possible to expand the VEEAM-ESX host. Disregard any errors or warnings you may see in the Veeam ONE Monitor dashboard interface at this stage.

12. [] Expand **Resources**.
13. [] Expand **Production** to view the VMs included in the course infrastructure.

===

## Step 2: Add a Hyper-V host

1. [] Click the **Add Server** on the toolbar.
2. [] Select **Hyper-V Server**.
3. [] Enter DNS name: +++VEEAM-HYPERV+++
4. [] Select the **Hyper-V host** radio button.
5. [] Click the **Next** button on the **Name** step.
6. [] Enter: 
 1. Username: +++VEEAMINFRA\Administrator+++
 2. Password: +++Pa$$w0rd+++

7. [] Click the **Next** button on the **Credentials** step.
8. [] Click the **Finish** on the **Summary** step.
> Note: Do not enter any login or password in the Hyper-V VMs Guest OS Credentials section.

9. [] Click the **OK** to save credentials.
> Note: Disregard any warnings you may see on the Veeam ONE Monitor dashboard interface at this stage. Due to the lab resource constraints, the VEEAM-HYPERV server only hosts one tiny DOS-based virtual machine.

10. [] Close the **Veeam ONE Monitor** interface.

===

## Step 3: Set up a Veeam ONE Reporter collection interval

1. [] Launch **Veeam ONE Reporter** from the desktop.
2. [] Tick the **Use Windows session credentials** check box.
3. [] Click the **Login** button.
4. [] Click the **Configuration** tab.
5. [] Click **Servers**.
6. [] Select the **VEEAM-ESX** line.
7. [] Click **Scheduling...**.
8. [] Enter periodically every: +++3+++ hours.
9. [] Click the **OK** button.
> Note: Due to the lab time constraints, the collection interval is scheduled more often than in a production environment.

10. [] Close the **Veeam ONE Reporter** interface.

---

# Congratulations!

You have completed this Module, to mark the lab as complete click on the menu in the upper right-hand corner and select **End**.
